# Automatic Text Summarizer Using Wu-Palmer Measure and Topological Sentence Selection (V 0.1)
This code is based on an unfinished paper of mine that uses a version of topological sorting and Wu-Palmer measure and topological sentence selection to summarize a corpus. I've written a short script to demonstrate the methodology used in the paper. 

## Paper Methodology 
Coming Soon. 

## Pre-Requisites 
You need the following libraries for Python to be installed in your computer.
##### [NLTK](https://www.nltk.org/)
```
You can install NLTK via pip by executing: 
pip install nltk
```
##### [Summa](https://pypi.org/project/summa/) 
Along with our summarizer script, I've attached a summarizer script Summa that uses Text Rank. We have used this script to compare results generated by Text Rank to our script. 
```
You can install Summa via pip by executing:
pip install summa
```
## Pre-Processing 
Before running our summarizer script, you need to run the pre-processor script (which I've written yet). The preprocessor script performs the following tasks: 
```
1. Remove stop words from the corpus using a standard list. 
2. Prune off punctuations & numeric values as they do not affect the quality of sentence selection.
3. Remove symbolic short forms such as Mr.,Ms.,Dr.,Rs.,&,%,$ etc. 
4. Expand texual short forms such as It's , That's , What's etc. 
5. Form a list of sentences from the corpus after preprocessing through steps 1 to 4 are complete. 
```
## Running the Script 
You can run the script simply by typing the following in terminal: 
```
python v01.py 
```
##### Selecting the Corpus
I've already attached a few manually pre-processed text files in the 'Corpus-Collection' folder. However, you can use any passage of your choice as long as it is parsable into a string by Python. You can simply edit the line: 
```
file=open('Corpus-Collection/text4.txt','r')
```
##### Changing The Percetage of Summarization 
By default the percentage_summarization value has been set to 0.5 indicating 50% summarization. You can change the factor by simply editing the line: 
```
percentage_summarization=0.5
```
